
# Warudo Handbook

Welcome to the [Warudo Handbook](https://docs.warudo.app/)!

Warudo Handbook is offical ultimate guide for powerful 3D VTubing software [Warudo](https://warudo.app/)! The main purpose of this repository is to provide comprehensive beginner-friendly yet in-depth enough document for [Warudo App](https://warudo.app/).

We using [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/) to create website which is maked by JavaScript Markdown and so much more great staffs.

## Commands

`yarn` Install dependencies  
`yarn start:en` Start EN version  
`yarn start:zh` Start ZH version  
`yarn start:all` Start multi-version at different port  
`yarn build` Build site

 
## Running local development site

If you are not familiar with dev staff, don't worry, let's get start.

### Prepare environment

First, download the runtime. 

 - Node.js download: https://nodejs.org/en/download/  
	Node.js is the programming language we used.  
	Select LTS version - installer (.msi/.exe for Windows, .pkg for macOS).

 - GitHub Desktop download: https://desktop.github.com/  
    GitHub Desktop is a great version control software for us to manage and commit changes.

 - VSCode download: https://code.visualstudio.com/  
	VSCode is a common editor that works great for front-end sites like this one, you can also use other text editors.

### Using command line

For Windows, use `Win+R` and enter `cmd` to open the terminal.

For macOS, use the `Terminal` app in your lunchpad.

After installation, you should able to use the `node -v` command to see node.js version on the terminal.

### Set up the project using GitHub desktop

Login Github account

Search for `HakuyaLabs/warudo-doc` 

Clone project  
Then the project has been downloaded to your computer.

Click `Current branch` - `New branch` - input name - `Create branch`    
So that you can edit files in your independent branch.

Click `Publish branch`  
Event one should see your branch and you are ready to start edit.

### Run local site

Open the terminal.

**`cd <path_for_your_dev_folder>`**  
Jump into the folder where we place site files.

> Tips: You can check Github desktop app OR drag & drop the folder to the terminal window for easily get the project path. In VSCode or a similar editor, you can also use the in-app terminal to run commands.

**`corepack enable`**   
That set up package manager we used for node.js.  
*Usually you just need run this command once.*

**`yarn`**  
Install dependencies.  
*When project dependencies (package.json) updated, re-run this command is necessary.*

**`yarn start:en`** Start EN version  
**`yarn start:zh`** Start ZH version  
**`yarn start:all`** Start multi-version at different port  

Then you are all set, you can view local site on your machine!  
When you change and save the docs, the browser will automatic refresh.  
Try it out, and go ahead start editing document files!  

### Start editing

For the English version, docs are located at `/docs`.  
For the Chinese version, docs are located at `/i18n/zh/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current`.  

Non-English version files should be exactly the same structure as the English version so that the language switch can work accurately.  

> Tips: The navigation bar on the left side is also generated by English version files, 
> It's recommended to copy every file in `/docs` folder to `/i18n/[lang]/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current` and make sure that every file aligns in a different language.

Most document files are saved as .md or .mdx, known as [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/) files,   
which is just plain text with some formate code in it.

### Commit & Upload your changes

After saving all the files that you changed.   

Open the Github desktop, then you can see all the changes on the left side.  
Check all the changed files you want to commit.  
Enter a summary, and click `Commit`.  

You have committed your changes and you should see it in the `History` panel.  

But it is just on your computer right now.  
To publish to Github, click `Push Origin`.  

Yay! Everyone should see it online, and you can let everyone know.

### Deploy your changes

All the changes will be reviewed merged into the master and then published to the website.  
Contact the reviewer on Discord or QQ for the next step. 

